Before going into any sort of practice problems, I do want to cover this right now.
Don't skip over this video.
Watch his explanation if need be.
Watch it twice.
OK, so see if we have a scenario where Iraq is being dropped off of a 85 metre high cliff.
I'm going to call this perspective one and perspective two of this happening.
So let's say this.
Let's say that your buddy over here, he's on a cliff and he's saying to you, hey, check me out,
I'm up on a cliff, I'm going to drop this rock.
And you're all the way down here and you're observing this.
You're saying, hey, look, that's a really high cliff right there.
So what would you say is the initial height of the object?
OK, it's 85 meters high and all the way down here when it hits the ground, what would you say is the
final height of the object?
Well, if it's hitting the ground where it makes sense that it's zero meters high.
OK, so that's perspective number one.
What about perspective number two?
How could I change this right now?
Well, say, if your buddy over here, he's saying, hey, check me out, I'm about to drop this rock
off of a cliff and instead you're now.
On a little red boat sand yourself.
Oh, that's pretty cool.
Well, check me out.
I'm on a boat and your buddies like, hey, check me out once again.
I'm going to drop this rock off this cliff.
And what we could call even a whole.
So what would you say is the initial height of the object now keeping in mind that this is ground level?
OK.
This is now zero meters high.
And what would you say the final height of the object is as it hits the bottom of this hole or the bottom
of this cliff?
Negative 85 meters.
OK, so I'm just going to take this away.
Now, what is the benefit of this in a lot of cases when you're given the initial hype?
I would actually just prefer to look at it in this perspective rather than this perspective over here.
Same here.
Actually dropping an object out of a window or you are on top of a building.
You know, the height of the the window that you're dropping the object out of or the height of the
building that you're dropping something off of.
And when you're given that, I would actually just look at perspective one over here, I suppose, perspective,
too, because I don't like the idea that you might forget this negative sign here.
And I'll actually put you into a lot of trouble.
I don't like that.
OK, well, how about this, say, if we weren't given.
The initial high.
And this is what we're trying to find.
OK, well, that's fine for this situation because we actually do have the idea that it's going to be
hitting the ground and we actually do have a given piece of information that it's zero meters but say
if safe over here and want once again, let's say this.
Let's say that the object.
Is up here.
And we're trying to find the final right now.
Well, we don't have the initial height, we don't have the initial height and we don't have the final
height, so this is no good.
Whereas if we do look at it like this in this perspective and we're trying to find out the final height,
maybe after it drops for a certain amount of seconds, at least when we're looking at it like this,
where we don't have the height, we at least have a given piece of information that the initial height
will be zero.
In this situation, hey, what if you're actually saying, hey, this building is a certain not a meters
off the ground, I don't know what that number is.
Well, so this is a known piece of information and this is an unknown piece of information.
And if we actually aren't given a another piece of information on the problem, we won't be able to
solve it.
But with this perspective in mind, if you're not given height, you can at least say that the initial
height of the object is zero and it's going to drop down a certain amount in a lot of situations.
You will calculate this out and you will get a negative height for how much it actually does drop.
So those are the two different perspectives whenever you're actually given a certain height.
I would actually just say, hey, I want this initial height is 85 meters if you're not giving in height.
I would actually just say that zero meters and it's just going to drop down a certain amount.
So given a certain height, say it's that's the initial height.
If you're not having an initial height, say that the initial height is zero.